All right, all right, so I know this part is a little tricky when you first start off with hooks,
it can be a little overwhelming.
It's why the react documentation doesn't really teach hooks until later on, because it makes a lot
more sense once you understand this idea of class components, this idea of life-cycle hooks.
But if we just remove.
Are alt code that has been commented out, you see that our code reads pretty nicely, it's just a function,
except this function now has some state that we usually declare at the top and a loose effect, a side
effect that we do every time we run the app and we tell it when we want to run this use effect.
In the second argument, that is an array.
The other parts are pretty self-explanatory, just like we've built components before.
Now to really solidify our knowledge here, I want to do one other thing just to make sure that we really
get these hooks concept.
Let's say I wanted to create a button.
And let's just say that this bun lives right here, right below our title, and this bun is going to
say, just click.
Me.
And it's going to have an on click function and this unclick function, we haven't been yet, but I'm
going to just say that it's going to have a set count that we haven't created yet.
So this is going to be a function that changes a new piece of state.
And this time around we'll just have a new count state.
So I'm going to create.
A piece of state alcohol account and set count, so you kind of see the repetition here, we're just
creating a state at the top with what the state name is and what the function is that changes that state.
And I'll say use state and I'll just give it a count of zero.
So this is going to be zero.
And this set count is going to be right over here, and when a user clicks, it's going to run.
SEC count and we'll just say count plus one, so we're just incrementing a counter, so unclick SEC
count and it's going to add one to the count.
If I save this and go back, you see that I have Callick Me here and let's just console log this so
we can see it.
Let's do it right after the fetch, just so we understand exactly what's happening here, if I do console
log.
Count, OK, if I save this, we should understand what the error is or the warning that we get on the
right side, hey, how come inside of you the fact you have count, but you're not adding anything in
here?
Let's just save this and see what happens if I go over here, see that I have zero.
If I click me, nothing happens.
And why is that?
You should be able to answer that, right?
Because we've added no dependency to this use effect.
Nothing in the array, which means, hey, just run at once.
One applets if I refresh the page.
Again, just run at once, but after that, don't run it.
So how can I solve that?
Well, we just add count in here, and that's what the warning is telling us.
Hey, don't you want to add count if I add count?
Now, every time I click.
It's going to run.
The use effect, but this also means that we're constantly fetching.
Our users, if I go to the network tab and I click me, you see that we get users, we make that fetch
API call every time.
So this line simply means only run if count changes.
Right, and that should make sense, I just wanted to show that example, just so you understand exactly
what is happening here, because at first it use effect can be tricky, but hopefully this clears things
up for you.
Now, I'll link to the repo of this finish code so you can play around with it and try new things.
But hopefully hooks aren't as intimidating as you initially thought.
At the end of the day, we're just converting our class components into stateful functional components.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.